getting_started.md, before:

# Getting Started with notion-dart-kit

This guide will walk you through everything you need to start using **notion-dart-kit** in your Dart or Flutter projects.

## Table of Contents

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Basic Usage](#basic-usage)
- [Working with Pages](#working-with-pages)
- [Working with Databases](#working-with-databases)
- [Working with Blocks](#working-with-blocks)
- [Query DSL](#query-dsl)
- [Error Handling](#error-handling)
- [Best Practices](#best-practices)
- [Next Steps](#next-steps)

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have:

1. **Dart SDK 3.0.0 or later** installed
2. **A Notion account** with admin access to a workspace
3. **A Notion integration** with an API token

### Creating a Notion Integration

1. Go to [https://www.notion.so/my-integrations](https://www.notion.so/my-integrations)
2. Click **"+ New integration"**
3. Give it a name (e.g., "My Dart App")
4. Select the workspace you want to use
5. Click **"Submit"**
6. Copy the **"Internal Integration Token"** (starts with `secret_`)

### Granting Access to Your Integration

Your integration needs explicit access to pages and databases:

1. Open the page or database you want to access
2. Click the **"..."** menu in the top right
3. Scroll down to **"Connections"**
4. Click **"Add connections"**
5. Select your integration from the list

**Important**: The integration can only access pages and databases you explicitly share with it.

## Installation

Add `notion-dart-kit` to your `pubspec.yaml`:

```yaml
dependencies:
  notion_dart_kit: ^0.1.0
```

Then run:

```bash
dart pub get
# or
flutter pub get
```

## Setup

### Creating a Client

```dart
import 'package:notion_dart_kit/notion_dart_kit.dart';

void main() async {
  // Initialize the client with your integration token
  final client = NotionClient(
    token: 'secret_YOUR_INTEGRATION_TOKEN',
  );

  // Optional: Enable debug logging
  NotionLogger.instance.initialize(isDebugMode: true);

  try {
    // Your code here
  } finally {
    // Always close the client when done
    client.close();
  }
}
```

### Environment Variables (Recommended)

For security, store your token in environment variables:

**.env file:**
```
NOTION_API_KEY=secret_YOUR_INTEGRATION_TOKEN
```

**Code:**
```dart
import 'package:notion_dart_kit/notion_dart_kit.dart';
import 'package:dotenv/dotenv.dart';

void main() async {
  final env = DotEnv()..load();

  final client = NotionClient(
    token: env['NOTION_API_KEY']!,
  );

  // Your code here
}
```

## Basic Usage

### Getting User Information

```dart
// Get information about the bot user (your integration)
final botUser = await client.users.me();
print('Bot User: ${botUser.name}');
print('Bot ID: ${botUser.id}');

// Check user type
botUser.when(
  person: (id, person, name, avatarUrl) {
    print('Type: Person');
    print('Email: ${person.email}');
  },
  bot: (id, bot, name, avatarUrl) {
    print('Type: Bot');
    print('Workspace: ${bot.workspaceName}');
  },
);
```

### Retrieving a User

```dart
final user = await client.users.retrieve('user_id');
print('User: ${user.name}');
```

### Listing All Users

```dart
final usersResponse = await client.users.list(pageSize: 50);
print('Found ${usersResponse.results.length} users');

for (final user in usersResponse.results) {
  print('- ${user.name} (${user.id})');
}
```

### Searching for Content

```dart
// Search all accessible pages and databases
final searchResults = await client.search.search(
  query: 'project',
  pageSize: 10,
);

print('Found ${searchResults.results.length} results');

for (final result in searchResults.results) {
  result.when(
    page: (page) => print('📄 Page: ${page.id}'),
    database: (database) => print('📊 Database: ${database.id}'),
  );
}
```

## Working with Pages

### Retrieving a Page

```dart
final page = await client.pages.retrieve('page_id');

print('Page ID: ${page.id}');
print('Created: ${page.createdTime}');
print('Last edited: ${page.lastEditedTime}');
print('Archived: ${page.archived}');
print('URL: ${page.url}');

// Access properties
final properties = page.properties;
print('Properties: ${properties.keys}');
```

### Creating a Page

#### Simple Page in Database

```dart
final newPage = await client.pages.create(
  parent: Parent.database(databaseId: 'database_id').toJson(),
  properties: {
    'Name': PropertyValue.title([
      RichText.text(text: 'My First Page'),
    ]).toJson(),
    'Status': PropertyValue.select('In Progress').toJson(),
    'Priority': PropertyValue.number(5).toJson(),
  },
);

print('Created page: ${newPage.id}');
```

#### Page as Child of Another Page

```dart
final childPage = await client.pages.create(
  parent: Parent.page(pageId: 'parent_page_id').toJson(),
  properties: {
    'title': PropertyValue.title([
      RichText.text(text: 'Child Page'),
    ]).toJson(),
  },
);
```

#### Page with Content Blocks

```dart
final pageWithContent = await client.pages.create(
  parent: Parent.database(databaseId: 'database_id').toJson(),
  properties: {
    'Name': PropertyValue.title([
      RichText.text(text: 'Page with Content'),
    ]).toJson(),
  },
  children: [
    {
      'object': 'block',
      'type': 'heading_1',
      'heading_1': {
        'rich_text': [
          {'type': 'text', 'text': {'content': 'Introduction'}}
        ],
      },
    },
    {
      'object': 'block',
      'type': 'paragraph',
      'paragraph': {
        'rich_text': [
          {'type': 'text', 'text': {'content': 'This is the first paragraph.'}}
        ],
      },
    },
  ],
);
```

### Updating a Page

```dart
// Update properties
await client.pages.update(
  'page_id',
  properties: {
    'Status': PropertyValue.select('Done').toJson(),
    'Completed': PropertyValue.checkbox(true).toJson(),
  },
);

// Update icon and cover
await client.pages.update(
  'page_id',
  icon: FileObject.emoji('🎉').toJson(),
  cover: FileObject.external(url: 'https://example.com/image.jpg').toJson(),
);
```

### Archiving and Restoring Pages

```dart
// Archive a page
await client.pages.archive('page_id');

// Restore an archived page
await client.pages.restore('page_id');
```

## Working with Databases

### Retrieving a Database

```dart
final database = await client.databases.retrieve('database_id');

print('Database ID: ${database.id}');
print('Title: ${database.title.first.plainText}');
print('Is inline: ${database.isInline}');

// View database schema
for (final entry in database.properties.entries) {
  print('Property: ${entry.key} (${entry.value.type})');
}
```

### Querying a Database

```dart
// Simple query
final results = await client.databases.query('database_id');

print('Found ${results.results.length} pages');

for (final page in results.results) {
  print('Page: ${page.id}');
}
```

### Query with Filter

```dart
final results = await client.databases.query(
  'database_id',
  filter: {
    'property': 'Status',
    'select': {'equals': 'In Progress'},
  },
);
```

### Query with Sorts

```dart
final results = await client.databases.query(
  'database_id',
  sorts: [
    {'property': 'Priority', 'direction': 'descending'},
    {'property': 'Created', 'direction': 'ascending'},
  ],
);
```

### Query with Pagination

```dart
final allPages = <Page>[];
String? cursor;

do {
  final response = await client.databases.query(
    'database_id',
    startCursor: cursor,
    pageSize: 100, // Maximum allowed
  );

  allPages.addAll(response.results);
  cursor = response.nextCursor;

  print('Fetched ${allPages.length} pages so far...');
} while (cursor != null);

print('Total: ${allPages.length} pages');
```

### Creating a Database

```dart
final newDatabase = await client.databases.create(
  parent: Parent.page(pageId: 'parent_page_id').toJson(),
  title: [
    RichText.text(text: 'My Tasks').toJson(),
  ],
  properties: {
    'Name': PropertySchema.title().toJson(),
    'Status': PropertySchema.select(
      options: [
        SelectOption(name: 'Todo'),
        SelectOption(name: 'In Progress'),
        SelectOption(name: 'Done'),
      ],
    ).toJson(),
    'Priority': PropertySchema.number().toJson(),
    'Due Date': PropertySchema.date().toJson(),
  },
);

print('Created database: ${newDatabase.id}');
```

### Updating a Database

```dart
// Update title
await client.databases.update(
  'database_id',
  title: [
    RichText.text(text: 'Updated Title').toJson(),
  ],
);

// Add a new property
await client.databases.update(
  'database_id',
  properties: {
    'Assignee': PropertySchema.people().toJson(),
  },
);
```

## Working with Blocks

### Retrieving a Block

```dart
final block = await client.blocks.retrieve('block_id');

block.when(
  paragraph: (id, createdTime, lastEditedTime, createdBy, lastEditedBy,
      hasChildren, archived, inTrash, paragraph) {
    print('Paragraph: ${paragraph.richText.first.plainText}');
  },
  heading1: (id, createdTime, lastEditedTime, createdBy, lastEditedBy,
      hasChildren, archived, inTrash, heading) {
    print('Heading 1: ${heading.richText.first.plainText}');
  },
  // ... handle other block types
  unsupported: (id, createdTime, lastEditedTime, createdBy, lastEditedBy,
      hasChildren, archived, inTrash, type) {
    print('Unsupported block type: $type');
  },
);
```

### Retrieving Child Blocks

```dart
final childrenResponse = await client.blocks.retrieveChildren('block_id');

print('Found ${childrenResponse.results.length} child blocks');

for (final block in childrenResponse.results) {
  block.when(
    paragraph: (_, _, _, _, _, _, _, _, paragraph) {
      print('- ${paragraph.richText.first.plainText}');
    },
    // ... handle other types
    unsupported: (_, _, _, _, _, _, _, _, type) {
      print('- [Unsupported: $type]');
    },
  );
}
```

### Appending Blocks

```dart
await client.blocks.appendChildren(
  'parent_block_id',
  [
    {
      'object': 'block',
      'type': 'heading_2',
      'heading_2': {
        'rich_text': [
          {'type': 'text', 'text': {'content': 'New Section'}}
        ],
      },
    },
    {
      'object': 'block',
      'type': 'paragraph',
      'paragraph': {
        'rich_text': [
          {'type': 'text', 'text': {'content': 'Some content here.'}}
        ],
      },
    },
    {
      'object': 'block',
      'type': 'to_do',
      'to_do': {
        'rich_text': [
          {'type': 'text', 'text': {'content': 'Complete this task'}}
        ],
        'checked': false,
      },
    },
  ],
);
```

### Updating a Block

```dart
await client.blocks.update(
  'block_id',
  {
    'paragraph': {
      'rich_text': [
        {'type': 'text', 'text': {'content': 'Updated paragraph content'}}
      ],
    },
  },
);
```

### Deleting a Block

```dart
await client.blocks.delete('block_id');
```

## Query DSL

The library provides a type-safe DSL for building complex filters and sorts.

### Filter Examples

```dart
import 'package:notion_dart_kit/notion_dart_kit.dart';

// Text filter
final textFilter = Filter.property('Name').text.contains('Project');

// Number filter
final numberFilter = Filter.property('Priority').number.greaterThan(3);

// Date filter
final dateFilter = Filter.property('Due Date').date.thisWeek(const {});

// Checkbox filter
final checkboxFilter = Filter.property('Completed').checkbox.equals(false);

// Select filter
final selectFilter = Filter.property('Status').select.equals('In Progress');

// Multi-select filter
final multiSelectFilter = Filter.property('Tags').multiSelect.contains('urgent');
```

### Combining Filters

```dart
// AND condition
final andFilter = Filter.and([
  Filter.property('Status').select.equals('In Progress'),
  Filter.property('Priority').number.greaterThanOrEqualTo(3),
  Filter.property('Completed').checkbox.equals(false),
]);

// OR condition
final orFilter = Filter.or([
  Filter.property('Status').select.equals('Todo'),
  Filter.property('Status').select.equals('In Progress'),
]);

// Complex nested filters
final complexFilter = Filter.and([
  Filter.or([
    Filter.property('Priority').number.greaterThan(4),
    Filter.property('Tags').multiSelect.contains('urgent'),
  ]),
  Filter.property('Completed').checkbox.equals(false),
]);
```

### Using Filters in Queries

```dart
final filter = Filter.and([
  Filter.property('Status').select.equals('Active'),
  Filter.property('Priority').number.greaterThan(3),
]);

final results = await client.databases.query(
  'database_id',
  filter: filter.toJson(),
);
```

### Sort Examples

```dart
import 'package:notion_dart_kit/notion_dart_kit.dart';

// Sort by property
final sortByPriority = Sort.property('Priority').descending();
final sortByName = Sort.property('Name').ascending();

// Sort by timestamp
final sortByCreated = Sort.createdTime.ascending();
final sortByEdited = Sort.lastEditedTime.descending();

// Multiple sorts
final results = await client.databases.query(
  'database_id',
  sorts: [
    Sort.property('Priority').descending(),
    Sort.property('Due Date').ascending(),
  ].map((s) => s.toJson()).toList(),
);
```

## Error Handling

The library provides specific exception types for different error scenarios.

### Exception Hierarchy

```dart
NotionException (base class)
├── AuthenticationException (401)
├── NotFoundException (404)
├── ValidationException (400)
├── RateLimitException (429)
└── (other HTTP errors)
```

### Handling Exceptions

```dart
try {
  final page = await client.pages.retrieve('page_id');
  print('Page retrieved: ${page.id}');
} on NotFoundException catch (e) {
  print('Page not found: ${e.message}');
  print('Status code: ${e.statusCode}');
} on AuthenticationException catch (e) {
  print('Authentication failed: ${e.message}');
  print('Check your integration token.');
} on ValidationException catch (e) {
  print('Invalid request: ${e.message}');
  print('Check your request parameters.');
} on RateLimitException catch (e) {
  print('Rate limited: ${e.message}');
  print('The library will automatically retry with backoff.');
} on NotionException catch (e) {
  print('Notion API error: ${e.message}');
  print('Status code: ${e.statusCode}');
} catch (e) {
  print('Unexpected error: $e');
}
```

### Result Type Pattern

For functional error handling, you can use the `Result` type:

```dart
Result<Page, NotionException> getPage(String pageId) async {
  try {
    final page = await client.pages.retrieve(pageId);
    return Result.success(page);
  } on NotionException catch (e) {
    return Result.failure(e);
  }
}

// Usage
final result = await getPage('page_id');

result.when(
  success: (page) {
    print('Success: ${page.id}');
  },
  failure: (error) {
    print('Error: ${error.message}');
  },
);

// Or use transformation methods
final pageTitle = result
    .mapValue((page) => page.properties)
    .flatMap((props) => extractTitle(props))
    .getOrElse('Untitled');
```

## Best Practices

### 1. Always Close the Client

```dart
void main() async {
  final client = NotionClient(token: 'your_token');

  try {
    // Your code here
  } finally {
    client.close(); // Always close to free resources
  }
}
```

### 2. Use Environment Variables for Tokens

Never hardcode your integration token in your source code:

```dart
// ❌ Bad
final client = NotionClient(token: 'secret_abc123...');

// ✅ Good
final client = NotionClient(token: Platform.environment['NOTION_API_KEY']!);
```

### 3. Handle Pagination for Large Datasets

```dart
// ❌ Bad - only gets first page
final results = await client.databases.query('database_id');

// ✅ Good - fetches all pages
final allPages = <Page>[];
String? cursor;

do {
  final response = await client.databases.query(
    'database_id',
    startCursor: cursor,
    pageSize: 100,
  );
  allPages.addAll(response.results);
  cursor = response.nextCursor;
} while (cursor != null);
```

### 4. Use Type-Safe Query DSL

```dart
// ❌ Harder to maintain
final filter = {
  'and': [
    {'property': 'Status', 'select': {'equals': 'Active'}},
    {'property': 'Priority', 'number': {'greater_than': 3}},
  ],
};

// ✅ Type-safe and refactor-friendly
final filter = Filter.and([
  Filter.property('Status').select.equals('Active'),
  Filter.property('Priority').number.greaterThan(3),
]);
```

### 5. Enable Debug Logging During Development

```dart
// Enable debug logging to see HTTP requests/responses
NotionLogger.instance.initialize(isDebugMode: true);
```

### 6. Respect Rate Limits

The library has built-in rate limiting (3 requests/second by default) and automatic retry with exponential backoff. However, for optimal performance:

- Batch operations when possible
- Use pagination efficiently
- Cache results when appropriate
- Filter on the server side, not client side

### 7. Handle Archived and Trashed Items

```dart
final page = await client.pages.retrieve('page_id');

if (page.archived) {
  print('This page is archived');
}

if (page.inTrash) {
  print('This page is in trash');
}

// Restore if needed
if (page.archived && !page.inTrash) {
  await client.pages.restore(page.id);
}
```

### 8. Use Pattern Matching for Union Types

```dart
// Blocks, Users, RichText, etc. use union types
block.when(
  paragraph: (_, _, _, _, _, _, _, _, paragraph) {
    // Handle paragraph
  },
  heading1: (_, _, _, _, _, _, _, _, heading) {
    // Handle heading 1
  },
  // ... other cases
  unsupported: (_, _, _, _, _, _, _, _, type) {
    // Handle unsupported types gracefully
  },
);
```

## Next Steps

Now that you've learned the basics, explore more advanced topics:

1. **[Example Files](./example/)** - See complete working examples
   - `basic_usage.dart` - Overview of all features
   - `query_dsl_example.dart` - Advanced filtering and sorting
   - `properties_and_blocks_example.dart` - Working with rich content
   - `pagination_example.dart` - Efficient data fetching

2. **[API Reference](./README.md#api-reference)** - Detailed API documentation

3. **[CLAUDE.md](./CLAUDE.md)** - Architecture and development guide

4. **[Official Notion API Docs](https://developers.notion.com/)** - Complete Notion API reference

5. **Advanced Features**
   - Data Sources API (database views)
   - Custom property types (relation, rollup, formula)
   - Rich text with mentions and equations
   - Nested blocks and hierarchical content
   - Error recovery and retry strategies

## Common Issues

### "Unauthorized" Error

- Check that your integration token is correct
- Ensure the integration has been added to the page/database (see [Granting Access](#granting-access-to-your-integration))

### "Object not found" Error

- Verify the page/database/block ID is correct
- Check that the integration has access to the resource
- Ensure the resource hasn't been deleted

### Rate Limit Errors

- The library automatically handles rate limits with retries
- If you're still hitting limits, reduce request frequency
- Consider caching results

### Properties Not Appearing

- Make sure you're using the exact property name (case-sensitive)
- Check that the property type matches your expectations
- Some properties are read-only (e.g., `created_time`, `last_edited_time`)

## Getting Help

- **GitHub Issues**: [https://github.com/Haruki1090/notion-dart-kit/issues](https://github.com/Haruki1090/notion-dart-kit/issues)
- **Notion API Docs**: [https://developers.notion.com/](https://developers.notion.com/)
- **Package Documentation**: [https://pub.dev/packages/notion_dart_kit](https://pub.dev/packages/notion_dart_kit)

---

**Happy coding!** 🚀

Commit message:

docs: Update getting_started.md to include Retry Queue monitoring instructions
Enhanced the getting_started.md file by adding a section on monitoring the Retry Queue, including code snippets for inspecting and stopping the queue. This update improves user guidance on managing transient failures and complements the existing documentation on rate limits and error handling.

getting_started.md, after:

# Getting Started with notion-dart-kit

This guide will walk you through everything you need to start using **notion-dart-kit** in your Dart or Flutter projects.

## Table of Contents

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Basic Usage](#basic-usage)
- [Working with Pages](#working-with-pages)
- [Working with Databases](#working-with-databases)
- [Working with Blocks](#working-with-blocks)
- [Query DSL](#query-dsl)
- [Error Handling](#error-handling)
- [Best Practices](#best-practices)
- [Next Steps](#next-steps)

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have:

1. **Dart SDK 3.0.0 or later** installed
2. **A Notion account** with admin access to a workspace
3. **A Notion integration** with an API token

### Creating a Notion Integration

1. Go to [https://www.notion.so/my-integrations](https://www.notion.so/my-integrations)
2. Click **"+ New integration"**
3. Give it a name (e.g., "My Dart App")
4. Select the workspace you want to use
5. Click **"Submit"**
6. Copy the **"Internal Integration Token"** (starts with `secret_`)

### Granting Access to Your Integration

Your integration needs explicit access to pages and databases:

1. Open the page or database you want to access
2. Click the **"..."** menu in the top right
3. Scroll down to **"Connections"**
4. Click **"Add connections"**
5. Select your integration from the list

**Important**: The integration can only access pages and databases you explicitly share with it.

## Installation

Add `notion-dart-kit` to your `pubspec.yaml`:

```yaml
dependencies:
  notion_dart_kit: ^0.1.0
```

Then run:

```bash
dart pub get
# or
flutter pub get
```

## Setup

### Creating a Client

```dart
import 'package:notion_dart_kit/notion_dart_kit.dart';

void main() async {
  // Initialize the client with your integration token
  final client = NotionClient(
    token: 'secret_YOUR_INTEGRATION_TOKEN',
  );

  // Optional: Enable debug logging
  NotionLogger.instance.initialize(isDebugMode: true);

  try {
    // Your code here
  } finally {
    // Always close the client when done
    client.close();
  }
}
```

### Environment Variables (Recommended)

For security, store your token in environment variables:

**.env file:**
```
NOTION_API_KEY=secret_YOUR_INTEGRATION_TOKEN
```

**Code:**
```dart
import 'package:notion_dart_kit/notion_dart_kit.dart';
import 'package:dotenv/dotenv.dart';

void main() async {
  final env = DotEnv()..load();

  final client = NotionClient(
    token: env['NOTION_API_KEY']!,
  );

  // Your code here
}
```

## Basic Usage

### Getting User Information

```dart
// Get information about the bot user (your integration)
final botUser = await client.users.me();
print('Bot User: ${botUser.name}');
print('Bot ID: ${botUser.id}');

// Check user type
botUser.when(
  person: (id, person, name, avatarUrl) {
    print('Type: Person');
    print('Email: ${person.email}');
  },
  bot: (id, bot, name, avatarUrl) {
    print('Type: Bot');
    print('Workspace: ${bot.workspaceName}');
  },
);
```

### Retrieving a User

```dart
final user = await client.users.retrieve('user_id');
print('User: ${user.name}');
```

### Listing All Users

```dart
final usersResponse = await client.users.list(pageSize: 50);
print('Found ${usersResponse.results.length} users');

for (final user in usersResponse.results) {
  print('- ${user.name} (${user.id})');
}
```

### Searching for Content

```dart
// Search all accessible pages and databases
final searchResults = await client.search.search(
  query: 'project',
  pageSize: 10,
);

print('Found ${searchResults.results.length} results');

for (final result in searchResults.results) {
  result.when(
    page: (page) => print('📄 Page: ${page.id}'),
    database: (database) => print('📊 Database: ${database.id}'),
  );
}
```

## Working with Pages

### Retrieving a Page

```dart
final page = await client.pages.retrieve('page_id');

print('Page ID: ${page.id}');
print('Created: ${page.createdTime}');
print('Last edited: ${page.lastEditedTime}');
print('Archived: ${page.archived}');
print('URL: ${page.url}');

// Access properties
final properties = page.properties;
print('Properties: ${properties.keys}');
```

### Creating a Page

#### Simple Page in Database

```dart
final newPage = await client.pages.create(
  parent: Parent.database(databaseId: 'database_id').toJson(),
  properties: {
    'Name': PropertyValue.title([
      RichText.text(text: 'My First Page'),
    ]).toJson(),
    'Status': PropertyValue.select('In Progress').toJson(),
    'Priority': PropertyValue.number(5).toJson(),
  },
);

print('Created page: ${newPage.id}');
```

#### Page as Child of Another Page

```dart
final childPage = await client.pages.create(
  parent: Parent.page(pageId: 'parent_page_id').toJson(),
  properties: {
    'title': PropertyValue.title([
      RichText.text(text: 'Child Page'),
    ]).toJson(),
  },
);
```

#### Page with Content Blocks

```dart
final pageWithContent = await client.pages.create(
  parent: Parent.database(databaseId: 'database_id').toJson(),
  properties: {
    'Name': PropertyValue.title([
      RichText.text(text: 'Page with Content'),
    ]).toJson(),
  },
  children: [
    {
      'object': 'block',
      'type': 'heading_1',
      'heading_1': {
        'rich_text': [
          {'type': 'text', 'text': {'content': 'Introduction'}}
        ],
      },
    },
    {
      'object': 'block',
      'type': 'paragraph',
      'paragraph': {
        'rich_text': [
          {'type': 'text', 'text': {'content': 'This is the first paragraph.'}}
        ],
      },
    },
  ],
);
```

### Updating a Page

```dart
// Update properties
await client.pages.update(
  'page_id',
  properties: {
    'Status': PropertyValue.select('Done').toJson(),
    'Completed': PropertyValue.checkbox(true).toJson(),
  },
);

// Update icon and cover
await client.pages.update(
  'page_id',
  icon: FileObject.emoji('🎉').toJson(),
  cover: FileObject.external(url: 'https://example.com/image.jpg').toJson(),
);
```

### Archiving and Restoring Pages

```dart
// Archive a page
await client.pages.archive('page_id');

// Restore an archived page
await client.pages.restore('page_id');
```

## Working with Databases

### Retrieving a Database

```dart
final database = await client.databases.retrieve('database_id');

print('Database ID: ${database.id}');
print('Title: ${database.title.first.plainText}');
print('Is inline: ${database.isInline}');

// View database schema
for (final entry in database.properties.entries) {
  print('Property: ${entry.key} (${entry.value.type})');
}
```

### Querying a Database

```dart
// Simple query
final results = await client.databases.query('database_id');

print('Found ${results.results.length} pages');

for (final page in results.results) {
  print('Page: ${page.id}');
}
```

### Query with Filter

```dart
final results = await client.databases.query(
  'database_id',
  filter: {
    'property': 'Status',
    'select': {'equals': 'In Progress'},
  },
);
```

### Query with Sorts

```dart
final results = await client.databases.query(
  'database_id',
  sorts: [
    {'property': 'Priority', 'direction': 'descending'},
    {'property': 'Created', 'direction': 'ascending'},
  ],
);
```

### Query with Pagination

```dart
final allPages = <Page>[];
String? cursor;

do {
  final response = await client.databases.query(
    'database_id',
    startCursor: cursor,
    pageSize: 100, // Maximum allowed
  );

  allPages.addAll(response.results);
  cursor = response.nextCursor;

  print('Fetched ${allPages.length} pages so far...');
} while (cursor != null);

print('Total: ${allPages.length} pages');
```

### Creating a Database

```dart
final newDatabase = await client.databases.create(
  parent: Parent.page(pageId: 'parent_page_id').toJson(),
  title: [
    RichText.text(text: 'My Tasks').toJson(),
  ],
  properties: {
    'Name': PropertySchema.title().toJson(),
    'Status': PropertySchema.select(
      options: [
        SelectOption(name: 'Todo'),
        SelectOption(name: 'In Progress'),
        SelectOption(name: 'Done'),
      ],
    ).toJson(),
    'Priority': PropertySchema.number().toJson(),
    'Due Date': PropertySchema.date().toJson(),
  },
);

print('Created database: ${newDatabase.id}');
```

### Updating a Database

```dart
// Update title
await client.databases.update(
  'database_id',
  title: [
    RichText.text(text: 'Updated Title').toJson(),
  ],
);

// Add a new property
await client.databases.update(
  'database_id',
  properties: {
    'Assignee': PropertySchema.people().toJson(),
  },
);
```

## Working with Blocks

### Retrieving a Block

```dart
final block = await client.blocks.retrieve('block_id');

block.when(
  paragraph: (id, createdTime, lastEditedTime, createdBy, lastEditedBy,
      hasChildren, archived, inTrash, paragraph) {
    print('Paragraph: ${paragraph.richText.first.plainText}');
  },
  heading1: (id, createdTime, lastEditedTime, createdBy, lastEditedBy,
      hasChildren, archived, inTrash, heading) {
    print('Heading 1: ${heading.richText.first.plainText}');
  },
  // ... handle other block types
  unsupported: (id, createdTime, lastEditedTime, createdBy, lastEditedBy,
      hasChildren, archived, inTrash, type) {
    print('Unsupported block type: $type');
  },
);
```

### Retrieving Child Blocks

```dart
final childrenResponse = await client.blocks.retrieveChildren('block_id');

print('Found ${childrenResponse.results.length} child blocks');

for (final block in childrenResponse.results) {
  block.when(
    paragraph: (_, _, _, _, _, _, _, _, paragraph) {
      print('- ${paragraph.richText.first.plainText}');
    },
    // ... handle other types
    unsupported: (_, _, _, _, _, _, _, _, type) {
      print('- [Unsupported: $type]');
    },
  );
}
```

### Appending Blocks

```dart
await client.blocks.appendChildren(
  'parent_block_id',
  [
    {
      'object': 'block',
      'type': 'heading_2',
      'heading_2': {
        'rich_text': [
          {'type': 'text', 'text': {'content': 'New Section'}}
        ],
      },
    },
    {
      'object': 'block',
      'type': 'paragraph',
      'paragraph': {
        'rich_text': [
          {'type': 'text', 'text': {'content': 'Some content here.'}}
        ],
      },
    },
    {
      'object': 'block',
      'type': 'to_do',
      'to_do': {
        'rich_text': [
          {'type': 'text', 'text': {'content': 'Complete this task'}}
        ],
        'checked': false,
      },
    },
  ],
);
```

### Updating a Block

```dart
await client.blocks.update(
  'block_id',
  {
    'paragraph': {
      'rich_text': [
        {'type': 'text', 'text': {'content': 'Updated paragraph content'}}
      ],
    },
  },
);
```

### Deleting a Block

```dart
await client.blocks.delete('block_id');
```

## Query DSL

The library provides a type-safe DSL for building complex filters and sorts.

### Filter Examples

```dart
import 'package:notion_dart_kit/notion_dart_kit.dart';

// Text filter
final textFilter = Filter.property('Name').text.contains('Project');

// Number filter
final numberFilter = Filter.property('Priority').number.greaterThan(3);

// Date filter
final dateFilter = Filter.property('Due Date').date.thisWeek(const {});

// Checkbox filter
final checkboxFilter = Filter.property('Completed').checkbox.equals(false);

// Select filter
final selectFilter = Filter.property('Status').select.equals('In Progress');

// Multi-select filter
final multiSelectFilter = Filter.property('Tags').multiSelect.contains('urgent');
```

### Combining Filters

```dart
// AND condition
final andFilter = Filter.and([
  Filter.property('Status').select.equals('In Progress'),
  Filter.property('Priority').number.greaterThanOrEqualTo(3),
  Filter.property('Completed').checkbox.equals(false),
]);

// OR condition
final orFilter = Filter.or([
  Filter.property('Status').select.equals('Todo'),
  Filter.property('Status').select.equals('In Progress'),
]);

// Complex nested filters
final complexFilter = Filter.and([
  Filter.or([
    Filter.property('Priority').number.greaterThan(4),
    Filter.property('Tags').multiSelect.contains('urgent'),
  ]),
  Filter.property('Completed').checkbox.equals(false),
]);
```

### Using Filters in Queries

```dart
final filter = Filter.and([
  Filter.property('Status').select.equals('Active'),
  Filter.property('Priority').number.greaterThan(3),
]);

final results = await client.databases.query(
  'database_id',
  filter: filter.toJson(),
);
```

### Sort Examples

```dart
import 'package:notion_dart_kit/notion_dart_kit.dart';

// Sort by property
final sortByPriority = Sort.property('Priority').descending();
final sortByName = Sort.property('Name').ascending();

// Sort by timestamp
final sortByCreated = Sort.createdTime.ascending();
final sortByEdited = Sort.lastEditedTime.descending();

// Multiple sorts
final results = await client.databases.query(
  'database_id',
  sorts: [
    Sort.property('Priority').descending(),
    Sort.property('Due Date').ascending(),
  ].map((s) => s.toJson()).toList(),
);
```

## Error Handling

The library provides specific exception types for different error scenarios.

### Exception Hierarchy

```dart
NotionException (base class)
├── AuthenticationException (401)
├── NotFoundException (404)
├── ValidationException (400)
├── RateLimitException (429)
└── (other HTTP errors)
```

### Handling Exceptions

```dart
try {
  final page = await client.pages.retrieve('page_id');
  print('Page retrieved: ${page.id}');
} on NotFoundException catch (e) {
  print('Page not found: ${e.message}');
  print('Status code: ${e.statusCode}');
} on AuthenticationException catch (e) {
  print('Authentication failed: ${e.message}');
  print('Check your integration token.');
} on ValidationException catch (e) {
  print('Invalid request: ${e.message}');
  print('Check your request parameters.');
} on RateLimitException catch (e) {
  print('Rate limited: ${e.message}');
  print('The library will automatically retry with backoff.');
} on NotionException catch (e) {
  print('Notion API error: ${e.message}');
  print('Status code: ${e.statusCode}');
} catch (e) {
  print('Unexpected error: $e');
}
```

### Result Type Pattern

For functional error handling, you can use the `Result` type:

```dart
Result<Page, NotionException> getPage(String pageId) async {
  try {
    final page = await client.pages.retrieve(pageId);
    return Result.success(page);
  } on NotionException catch (e) {
    return Result.failure(e);
  }
}

// Usage
final result = await getPage('page_id');

result.when(
  success: (page) {
    print('Success: ${page.id}');
  },
  failure: (error) {
    print('Error: ${error.message}');
  },
);

// Or use transformation methods
final pageTitle = result
    .mapValue((page) => page.properties)
    .flatMap((props) => extractTitle(props))
    .getOrElse('Untitled');
```

## Best Practices

### 1. Always Close the Client

```dart
void main() async {
  final client = NotionClient(token: 'your_token');

  try {
    // Your code here
  } finally {
    client.close(); // Always close to free resources
  }
}
```

### 2. Use Environment Variables for Tokens

Never hardcode your integration token in your source code:

```dart
// ❌ Bad
final client = NotionClient(token: 'secret_abc123...');

// ✅ Good
final client = NotionClient(token: Platform.environment['NOTION_API_KEY']!);
```

### 3. Handle Pagination for Large Datasets

```dart
// ❌ Bad - only gets first page
final results = await client.databases.query('database_id');

// ✅ Good - fetches all pages
final allPages = <Page>[];
String? cursor;

do {
  final response = await client.databases.query(
    'database_id',
    startCursor: cursor,
    pageSize: 100,
  );
  allPages.addAll(response.results);
  cursor = response.nextCursor;
} while (cursor != null);
```

### 4. Use Type-Safe Query DSL

```dart
// ❌ Harder to maintain
final filter = {
  'and': [
    {'property': 'Status', 'select': {'equals': 'Active'}},
    {'property': 'Priority', 'number': {'greater_than': 3}},
  ],
};

// ✅ Type-safe and refactor-friendly
final filter = Filter.and([
  Filter.property('Status').select.equals('Active'),
  Filter.property('Priority').number.greaterThan(3),
]);
```

### 5. Enable Debug Logging During Development

```dart
// Enable debug logging to see HTTP requests/responses
NotionLogger.instance.initialize(isDebugMode: true);
```

### 6. Respect Rate Limits

The library has built-in rate limiting (3 requests/second by default), automatic retry with exponential backoff, and a background Retry Queue for transient failures. However, for optimal performance:

- Batch operations when possible
- Use pagination efficiently
- Cache results when appropriate
- Filter on the server side, not client side

### 7. Monitor the Retry Queue (Optional)

```dart
final queue = client.retryQueue; // auto-started
// Inspect or stop if needed
// queue.stop();
```

### 8. Handle Archived and Trashed Items

```dart
final page = await client.pages.retrieve('page_id');

if (page.archived) {
  print('This page is archived');
}

if (page.inTrash) {
  print('This page is in trash');
}

// Restore if needed
if (page.archived && !page.inTrash) {
  await client.pages.restore(page.id);
}
```

### 8. Use Pattern Matching for Union Types

```dart
// Blocks, Users, RichText, etc. use union types
block.when(
  paragraph: (_, _, _, _, _, _, _, _, paragraph) {
    // Handle paragraph
  },
  heading1: (_, _, _, _, _, _, _, _, heading) {
    // Handle heading 1
  },
  // ... other cases
  unsupported: (_, _, _, _, _, _, _, _, type) {
    // Handle unsupported types gracefully
  },
);
```

## Next Steps

Now that you've learned the basics, explore more advanced topics:

1. **[Example Files](./example/)** - See complete working examples
   - `basic_usage.dart` - Overview of all features
   - `query_dsl_example.dart` - Advanced filtering and sorting
   - `properties_and_blocks_example.dart` - Working with rich content
   - `pagination_example.dart` - Efficient data fetching

2. **[API Reference](./README.md#api-reference)** - Detailed API documentation

3. **[CLAUDE.md](./CLAUDE.md)** - Architecture and development guide

4. **[Official Notion API Docs](https://developers.notion.com/)** - Complete Notion API reference

5. **Advanced Features**
   - Data Sources API (database views)
   - Custom property types (relation, rollup, formula)
   - Rich text with mentions and equations
   - Nested blocks and hierarchical content
   - Error recovery and retry strategies

## Common Issues

### "Unauthorized" Error

- Check that your integration token is correct
- Ensure the integration has been added to the page/database (see [Granting Access](#granting-access-to-your-integration))

### "Object not found" Error

- Verify the page/database/block ID is correct
- Check that the integration has access to the resource
- Ensure the resource hasn't been deleted

### Rate Limit Errors

- The library automatically handles rate limits with retries
- If you're still hitting limits, reduce request frequency
- Consider caching results

### Properties Not Appearing

- Make sure you're using the exact property name (case-sensitive)
- Check that the property type matches your expectations
- Some properties are read-only (e.g., `created_time`, `last_edited_time`)

## Getting Help

- **GitHub Issues**: [https://github.com/Haruki1090/notion-dart-kit/issues](https://github.com/Haruki1090/notion-dart-kit/issues)
- **Notion API Docs**: [https://developers.notion.com/](https://developers.notion.com/)
- **Package Documentation**: [https://pub.dev/packages/notion_dart_kit](https://pub.dev/packages/notion_dart_kit)

---

**Happy coding!** 🚀
